Add resource properties structure and validation (#1213)
awslabs/smithy: docs/source-2.0/aws/aws-core.rst

    Indicates the service supports resource level tagging consistent with AWS
    services.
Trait selector
    ``service``
Trait value
    ``structure``

The ``aws.api#tagEnabled`` trait is a structure that supports the following
members:

.. list-table::
    :header-rows: 1
    :widths: 10 20 70

    * - Property
      - Type
      - Description
    * - disableDefaultOperations
      - ``boolean``
      - Set to true to indicate that the service does not have default tagging
        operations that create, read, update, and delete tags on resources.

The default operations for resource tagging operations are named TagResource,
UntagResource, and ListTagsForResource. All three operations are required to be
in the service, and each operation must satisfy corresponding validation
constraints unless ``disableDefaultOperations`` is set to **true**.

The following is a minimal snippet showing the inclusion of the named required
operations for the ``aws.api#tagEnabled``  Weather service.

.. code-block:: smithy

    @tagEnabled
    service Weather {
        operations: [TagResource, UntagResource, ListTagsForResource]
    }

.. _tag-resource-api:

``TagResource``
===============

> The tag resource operation for a ``aws.api#tagEnabled`` creates and updates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The tag resource operation for an ``aws.api#tagEnabled`` service creates and updates
```

tag associations on a resource:

>     * Operation name must case-sensitively match ``TagResource``.

Reviewer: The indentation here is turning this into a block quote

    * Must have exactly one input member that targets a string shape and has a

>       member name that matches: ``^([R|r]esource)?([A|a]rn|ARN)$`` to accept

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      member name that matches ``^([R|r]esource)?([A|a]rn|ARN)$`` to accept
```

      the resource ARN.
    * Must have exactly one input member that targets a list shape, with list
      member targeting a structure that consists of two members that target a
      string shape representing the tag key or name and the tag value. This
      member name must match: ``^[T|t]ag(s|[L|l]ist)$``

The following snippet is a valid definition of a tag resource operation and
its input:

.. code-block:: smithy

    structure Tag { key: String, value: String }

    list TagList { member: Tag }

    operation TagResource {
        input := {
            @required
            resourceArn: String
            @length(max: 128)
            tags: TagList
        }
        output := { }
    }

.. _untag-resource-api:

``UntagResource``
=================

The untag resource operation removes tag associations on a resource.

>     * Operation name must case-sensitively match ``UntagResource``.

Reviewer: unindent

    * Must have exactly one input member that targets a string shape and has a
      member name that matches: ``^([R|r]esource)?([A|a]rn|ARN)$`` to accept
      the resource ARN.
    * Must have exactly one input member that targets a list shape, with list
      member targeting a string representing tag keys or names to remove. This
      member name must match: ``^[T|t]ag[K|k]eys$``

The following snippet is an example of the untag resource operation and its
input:

.. code-block:: smithy

    list TagKeys { member: String }

    operation UntagResource {
        input := {
            @required
            arn: String
            @required
            tagKeys: TagKeys
        }
        output := { }
    }

.. _listtags-resource-api:

``ListTagsForResource``
=======================

The list tags for resource operation retrieves all tag associations on a
resource.

>     * Operation name must case-sensitively match ``ListTagsForResource``.

Reviewer: need to un-indent this

    resource Forecast {
        identifiers: {
            forecastId: ForecastId
        }
    }

.. smithy-trait:: aws.api#taggable

--------------------------
``aws.api#taggable`` trait
--------------------------

Trait summary
    Indicates the resource supports AWS tag associations and identifies resource
    specific operations that perform CRUD on the associated tags. Managing tag
    associations on a resource through service-wide operations is possible if
    the resource has an :ref:`aws.api#arn-trait`.

Trait selector
    ``resource``
Trait value
    ``structure``

The ``aws.api#taggable`` trait is a structure that supports the following
members:

.. list-table::
    :header-rows: 1
    :widths: 10 20 70

    * - Property
      - Type
      - Description
    * - property
      - ``string``
      - The name of the resource property representing tags for the resource.
        Specifying this enables Smithy to understand which resource lifecycle
        operations operate on tags.
    * - apiConfig
      - ``structure``
      - Configuration structure for resource specific tagging operations, if
        applicable.
    * - apiConfig.tagApi
      - ``ShapeID``

>       - Defines the operation used to create and update tags associations for

Reviewer: This and the following three properties are required, no?

Author: `apiConfig` isn't required. The all three sub-properties are _if_ `apiConfig` is present. I'll adjust the docs to make this clear.

Reviewer: Right, the nested properties are required. We usually document these structures separately.

        the resource. The value MUST be a valid :ref:`shape-id` that targets an
        ``operation`` shape.
    * - apiConfig.untagApi
      - ``ShapeID``
      - Defines the operation used to deletes tag associations from the
        resource. The value MUST be a valid :ref:`shape-id` that targets an
        ``operation`` shape.
    * - apiConfig.listTagsApi
      - ``ShapeID``
      - Defines the operation used to list tags for the resource. The value
        MUST be a valid :ref:`shape-id` that targets an ``operation`` shape.

Resource specific tagging operations tagApi, untagApi, and listTagsApi have
corresponding requirements to :ref:`tag-resource-api`, :ref:`untag-resource-api`,
and :ref:`listtags-resource-api`. The differences is that these operations may
have any name, and the resource ARN input member requirement is replaced by the
expected identifier binding rules for instance operations.

The following is an example of a resource with its own resource specific
tagging operations. Note the service has disabled default tagging operations
and the resource lacks an :ref:`aws.api#arn-trait`.

> .. code-block:: smithy

Reviewer: this is great. Can we include an example earlier too that shows how services can use service-wide tagging operations + ARNs?

Author: The snippet right above this trait is that example. I didn't repeat the examples of TagResource, UntagResource, ListTagsForResource and the types associated it. After those sections the last example snippet just clearly shows the operations on the service, and the resource having the `taggable` trait along with the `arn` trait.
